# DATA ANALYSIS USING EXCEL
These are Taskes on Excel from the Data Analysis Training With Chinonso  

## Description

This repository contains the files and documentation for an Excel task focused on data analysis. The task involves working with a dataset, performing various data manipulations to gain insights and present the findings.

## Dataset
The dataset used for this tasks are two different data sets. 
	The first is named "Sales Data," and it contains sales data for a company over the past year. The data includes information about Segment, Country, Product, Discount, Band, Units Sold, Manufacturing Price, Sale Price, Gross Sales, Discounts, Sales, Profit, and Month	 
	The second  data set is a 20 rows information generated by me and it has the following fields Employee ID, Employee Full Name, Department, Salary and Job type


## Task Objectives

1. To create a table with 20 rows of information having the fields below: 
-	Employee ID
-	Employee Full Name
-	Department (Communications, Sales, I.T)
-	Salary (between $5000 to $25000)
-	Job type (Part-time, Freelance, Contract)
Copy and paste table into worksheet 2 and worksheet 3
In worksheet 1, Show only employees who are ‘Freelancers’ and highlight the ones whose salaries are above $10000
In worksheet 2, split the employees’ full names into first name and last name. Check for duplicates and highlight if any (do not delete)
In worksheet 3, highlight employees whose names begin with the letter ‘E’ (in yellow). Format the Salary column such that the highest SALARY has a green background and the lowest SALARY has a red background.
Save the Excel file.
 
2. To determine the following below
	The total Revenue and Profit generated
	The average Revenue and Units Sold for every order
	The total Discount given in $
	Total number of sales recorded
	The highest Profit generated
Create a column named ‘Sales Range’, return ‘High Sales’ if the Sales value is above average, otherwise, return ‘Low Sales’.
 
3. To Calculate:
o	The average revenue generated from each sale of ‘Paseo’
o	The number of sales made in the Government and Midmarket segment
o	The total revenue generated from the sales of ‘Montana’ in Canada
o	In which Country, Segment and Month was the highest unit of goods sold?
o	What is the total profit made in December?

## Tools Used

Microsoft Excel: Used for data manipulation, analysis, and visualization.

## Conclusion

This Excel task aims to demonstrate data analysis skills using Microsoft Excel. This analysis should provide valuable insights into the company's sales performance and help in making data-driven decisions.

Feel free to explore the files and make improvements to the analysis as needed. Happy analyzing!
